---
title: "WR #12: March 16-22nd 2025. Chat with Traders"
date: 2025-03-22
description: "Chat with Traders"
---

# Podcasts

- [Chat with Traders](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/chat-with-traders/id957265404?i=1000676691027)  with Sam Massie
    - Markets are a collection of the expression of human spirit - a window into human behaviour - humans are very predictable, so it’s easy to observe the patterns
    - He manually recorded all the data and mined it in excel spreadsheets
    - Has an attitude that you can learn anything, curious study on your own and figure it out
    - Quant trading is actually not as complicated as some people think it is, a lot of it is just common sense.
    - When it comes to quant trading, you need to have delusional self belief that it will work, because you always feel like you are climbing a mountain which has a peak with a gold mine, but you don’t get any positive reinforcement along the way. Also, a lot of the time, you might have the idea of the gold mine, but the data just says - no, proving out of ideas is super tedious. There are statistical edges in the markets but it takes a tonne of work to get to diamond.
    - He took 1 and a half two years to find edge which was very profitable. Wife trained to execute after that.
    - You can predict in the future if you use the right strings. Also talks about being weirdly determined individual which tends to help in these situations.
    - On risk: there is a balance, because if you don’t push enough volume you might not make a lot of money, at the same time, if you push too much you might lose a lot in a day.