---
title: "WR #13: March 22nd-29th 2025. Long Weekend"
date: 2025-03-29
description: "Long Weekend"
---

# Articles

- [LFG Review by Stella:](https://humancarbohydrate.substack.com/p/the-start-up-party-is-already-here?utm_campaign=post&utm_medium=web&triedRedirect=true) I really liked this article because it talks about DC as an aggregator and investor in talent, which is not something I had thought of before.

# Podcasts

- The Rest is History: [September Massacres](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-rest-is-history/id1537788786?i=1000691417299) and [The First Feminist](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-rest-is-history/id1537788786?i=1000691417835)
    - This is another series on the French Revolution, first episode is on the September Massacres which is the prison slaughtering of prisoners by the people of Paris, in particular the most notable one of the Princess de Lamballe, Marie Antoinette’s side-kick in 1792.
    - The second series was about the first feminist, where the story is not about the first feminist to begin with but rather about Liberty as a sign of gathering and leading the people. Then the story turns to a woman, who was extremely poor, married young but was very involved with politics, and seems like a really admirable and inspiring figure: Olympe de Gouges.
- The Rest is History: [Elizabeth’s Sorcerer: Angels and Demons in Renaissance Europe](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-rest-is-history/id1537788786?i=1000694676087)
- [Ezra Klein and Derek Thompson on Lex Friedman](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/lex-fridman-podcast/id1434243584?i=1000700889367)
    - This talked a little bit about about the book - see review below.
    - More interesting, was the definition of left (liberal) and right (conservative), which I had never thought about deeply. They basically define it (much more eloquently), the left believe that 1) life is unfair and the role of government is to rectify that to some extent and 2) they are more skeptical of unchecked capitalism than the right. So we end up having rules to make sure there is no extreme welath growth from unchecked capitalism and wealth is redistributed to the poor to remedy some of the inequality.
    - Also interesting in what each side vales and fears - the left fears injustice, values change and tolerates overreach whereas the right fears cultural radicalism and destruction of society, values tradition and tolerates injustice.
    - A question is where does libertarianism fit in all of this, and why the need to specifically label apart from usefulness for grouping.
    - An interesting discussion about Kamala Harris and democratic party and how they think that you can still win by buying attention. She raised a record amount after she took over Biden, but she did not put herself out-there. The Republican party is a lot less risk-averse and goes on podcasts, posts a lot on social media. Democratic party have a “minimise negative attention” mentality, which does not work in nowadays changing media landscape. She was very good at debating, but that still did not help.
    - Also go into an interesting discussion about how after people go on podcasts a couple of times, they normalise the act, so it is not perceived as high-risk anymore.
    - They have a theory that we are in a realignment of
    - Also have an argument about whether DOGE actually have goals or are they blindly cutting costs without thinking about how that meets the goals. Compare it to Musk’s cutting of Twitter staff, but the government is a lot larger - 2 million people coming to justify why they have to stay is not functional.
- [Duran Podcast about Keir Starmer](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-duran-podcast/id1442883993?i=1000701439565)
    - The total the UK has committed to Ukraine is around 15 billion of aid since 2022
    - Massive fragmentation in party support in the polls. Farage has always been good opposition but has never had to lead. For the first time he has enough support that he might actually need to lead. Also talked about recent meeting with DC, who actually has ideas about fundamental restructuring and might be a good combination.

# Books

- Abundance by Derek Thompson and Ezra Klein
    - They mainly focus on 2 areas where restructuring is needed from the supply side - housing and energy.
    - On the formers: They argue there is not enough housing on the supply side mainly because of lengthy regulations you need to jump. They give really thorough examples of what exactly you need to do if you want to build in America. The loops and holes you need to go through and jump in order to build, cause you to spend money granted after announcements before you even start building on the project. Instead, if you use private money - example is council housing built for 400k per unit with a grant by some billionaires I forgot in SF, was built in under 3 years because that was the condition of the funding. That’s a lot of how the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation works - with conditional grants.
    - They also talk about innovation stagnation in the sciences. There is a lot of wrong incentive to invent for grant satisfaction rather than for what people truly find interesting. It is probably different within computing because a lot of the research is actually private.
    - On energy, the time it takes to actually build a clean power plant (e.g. nuclear) is way too long because of, again, regulation and will not be done in time to offset climate change effect unless we declare an emergency.
    - A really good book. They define it as a left-wing manifesto to an optimistic restructuring of left-wing regulations. I think they miss out on talking about education and healthcare, but there are many other books which reference this.