---
title: "WR #16: April 19th-May 5th 2025. Catherine the Great, Clear Thinking and Sovereign Child"
date: 2025-05-04
description: "Catherine the Great, Clear Thinking and Sovereign Child"
---

# Podcasts

- [How to raise a sovereign child](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-tim-ferriss-show/id863897795?i=1000684308338). This is an unconventional approach to raising children where one explains how to deal with the world instead of imposing restrictions. For example, his children can eat whatever they want, they don’t have to brush their teeth, they can go to bed whenever they like, they can not go to school if they want to. I am probably on the more imposing spectrum of this curve but I think it does seem like a liberating approach. The argument is that, once they learn the fundamentals behind why a decision is made, then they actually agree with you and you will not have to impose yourself. Also, doing stuff that people usually forbid them to is actually something they would stop doing themselves, for example people can only eat so much candy because they feel sick after a while, or they wouldn’t want to drink wine because it tastes gross.

# Books

- Catherine The Great by Robert K Massie. Finally finished this book:
    - She had 12 lovers which was considered normal - they were in fact called favourites and were well knowns, escalated and promoted within the military as a result and treated generally with more respect.
    - Overall, I find her a fascinating figure because she was not Russian, yet was extremely passionate about Russia. She brought Western ideas, tried to liberate the serfs, but had some pushback so kept that in the background.
    - Having read this, I feel like The Great (series by Hulu) does an awesome job of representing her spirit - it’s a shame they discontinued the show.
- Clear Thinking by Shane Parish.
    - I have found that I have been under slightly elevated stress at work because of literally more work which has needed to be done and this has caused me to be slightly sleep deprived and emotional. Grabbing this book was an attempt to rebase myself, I went through it very quickly as it’s easy to read.
    - First part of the book is interesting because it focuses on reasons why reactions tend to be emotional based rather than rationality based:
        - The social default - making a decision because people expect you to make it.
        - The ego default - making a recision or having a reaction because your pride has been hurt. This can be helped with confidence, confidence and ego are different.
        - The emotion default is because of hunger, sleep deprivation, emotion.
    - The second part of the book is a framework about making decisions but I feel like I have read so many of these frameworks, I went over it quite quickly.
    - One great idea which I liked is that before making a decision, you should always consult your board of directors. This can be made up of anyone, fictional, people you know or real people you don’t know. Being in the information age, there is no shortage of resources allowing you to learn about great people, so study whomever you admire and allow them to help you make decisions and judge you.
    

# Other

- House of Assad on BBC. First two episodes. Very interesting and seems like Bashar did a real disaster. From an outsider’s perspective it looked relatively easy to become a Western ally after the Iraq invasion and yet they completely rejected and went against (to the point of actively releasing Islamic extremists into Iraq to fight the West.