---
title: "WR #14: April 1st-6th 2025. Naval (MW) and Rise and Fall of Nations"
date: 2025-04-06
description: "Naval (MW) and Rise and Fall of Nations"
---


# Podcasts

- [4 hours of Naval on Modern Wisdom](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/modern-wisdom/id1347973549?i=1000668697925)
    - We spend so little spending time thinking about a decision. We tend to move in extremely long cycles, for examples shares in startups tend to vest over 4 years, children before puberty tends to last around 9 years, a life-time partner is forever. His rule of thumb is to spend around 25% of time you will spend during the decision thinking about it.
    - This is already quite well-known but he says no to nearly everything. That’s because once you have found what you want to focus on exploitation is what makes a difference. You need to get to 10,000 hours in this 1 thing, but he actually says that you need to get to 10j error corrections to become an expert. At the start of your life, 20s maybe, it makes more sense to do more exploration, until you find the exploitation phase.
    - Modern society is much more forgiving of failure. One result is that people have fewer children, but they have them late. They also don’t take as many risks.
    - Overthinking about yourself supports depression, it doesn’t really help so he tries to not do it.
    - They talk a lot about children, he says that people overvalue how hard it actually is to have children.

# Books

- The Rise and Fall of Nations by Ruchir Sharma
    - Probably one of the most eye-opening books I have started this year. It goes through heuristics about how to identify whether countries are in rise or decline, where in the cycle are they.
    - The first chapter is around people and links the growth of the working class to the growth of the country. He basically says that if your population is declining, and your working class are decreasing, then your country is unlikely to have higher growth. Reasons for this are (statistics are from book so might be slightly outdated, or I have remembered them wrong but will check):
        - Fewer children people are having, in particular below the replacement ratio. This could be due to emancipation of women or rising costs in this area.
        - People are retirign way too early. For example in China the retirement age has stayed the same but people live now 30 years longer than in the 60s.
        - Also, there isn’t a large influx of immigrants as there used to be before. A good example of a country which does this well is Australia, where the foreign born population is 30%, but they have a conception of being very hard to emigrate to.
        - A good number to have in your head is also the proportion of foreign born graduates compared to the foreign born people in the country.
        - Also a good question to ask is where are these people congregating. In Silicon Valley 30% of people are foreign born compared to the country’s 13%. Also 60% of the top 25 tech companies are founded by first or second generation immigrants.
        - A really interesting example was talking about China and the one-child policy which has now caused the population to be 1.21 to 1 skewed male and they have managed to shrink the population of a country which has a massive effect on the world because it’s so large.
        - Another way to add to working force is to emancipate women to return to work faster after child birth. This is unfortunately not a super discussed topic and there is still a very low participation of women in some countries. For example, Italy 40% of working women work, compared to 80% of men. Instead in the UK this is a little better 71% compared to 78%.
        - Robotics can also help because that is effectively adding to the workforce in order to support the Bismarkian style retirement scheme of the young paying for the old. Nothing is as stark that people are actually retiring a lot earlier than they need to - they are still fully able and functioning.
    - In sum: For talent, empower women, increase birth rate, attract immigrants and lean into robotics (maybe try tackling retirement age but that is difficult.