---
title: "WR #15: April 12th-19th 2025. Catherine the Great, Productivity, Media"
date: 2025-04-19
description: "Catherine the Great, Productivity, Media"
---

# Articles

- [Productivity article by Sam Altman](https://blog.samaltman.com/productivity)
    - I hadn’t read a productivity post in a long time but came across this on hackernews last week and I particularly resonate with this sentence:  **“Make sure to get the important shit done”, “Don’t waste time on stupid shit”, and “make a lot of lists”.** I make a list of Todo’s every day, in themes which align with my OKRs and I try to align to those. At the end of the week I look at how much non-important shit I did.
    - Usually if you push hard enough with urgency on something, that one thing would happen, which is what I usually find as well and try to channel this in day-to-day tasks.
    - One interesting point is that meetings during the day tend to be a huge cost of time. They are better done first thing or last thing, so you have an artificial deadline.
    - Again it is a good idea to link your current time to the price you think you are worth. So each hour in bed, each hour wasted, you can actually count how much money you are wasting. This is back to Naval’s point of how he would value himself at 10k an hour in his 20s.

# Books

- Catherine the Great: Serfdom, The Nakaz and Reforms
    - A lot of this goes directly through my head as I tend to listen passively whilst I’m at the gym or commuting but my overall impression for the beginning of her reign is that she was very involved with enlightenment figures like Voltaire, she read a lot at the beginning of her reign and tried to reform Russia towards Western values. She wrote the new code of law, originally in French - The Nakaz, again heavily influenced by the Enlightenment and advocating for equality of all men (even though there were still at least 10 million serfs in Russia at the time).
    - I find her very inspiring as a female leader because she was extremely efficient, and had been planning her reign for many years so that once she actually got to the throne, she was very good at executing, and unafraid to ruffle feathers. For example, even tough Orlov had helped her get to the throne and they were romantically involved, she did not marry him because she thought he wasn’t as literally as a consort should be.
    - Once war broke out with Turkey, she became too busy to deal with internal reforms because she had to focus her efforts on the war.

# Media

I saw a selection of particularly good movies/shows this week. Have taken evenings a little bit easier clearly. 

- Gladiator.
- Lord of the Rings
- Moulin Rouge Musical on West End. This was super entertaining and made you appreciate the fact that top talent is in London - all the performers were amazing and the show was modern.