---
title: "WR #8: February 9th-22nd 2025. Palantir and Books"
date: 2025-02-22
description: "Palantir and Books"
---

# Articles

- [There is no process, it will be painful by Shyam Sankar](https://www.shyamsankar.com/p/there-is-no-process-it-will-be-painful)
    - I have always been super pro-process oriented, but when I find that I have external deadlines I feel like process is a massive slow down. I do agree that process is helpful when you don’t have external deadlines in order to keep up momentum but in time-pressured situations it is not what matters, it is the culture that matters and I guess that’s why people say that culture eats strategy for breakfast.
    - He leans more into the idea that everything is about content.
- The Primacy of Winning by Shyam Sankar.
    - This was a pdf sent to me by a friend at Palantir and it has the principles of winning which I loved.
    - Missionaries vs Mercenaries. This is the usual point that you want to hire people who are aligned with the mission rather than people who work for pay because they will never
    - False Choice of Work-Life Balance. Again, a repeated point but phrased very eloquently. I don’t believe if you do what you love it does not become your life. Work is about having fun and embracing the journey. I always look for *work-life integration*. *A conscious rejection of work-life balance in honour of something greater.*
    - Building the right things vs building the right way. Another interesting point was on enginering teams. You need people who are really good at figuring out what to build and people who are really good at building the thing. If you have both you have a perfect team and the difficult part is in balancing the conflict between the two groups.
    - Superpowers and kryptonite. Like superman, it is important to avoid kryptonite (his weakness) in order to do well.
    - I particularly liked the end. *Continuously ask yourself Am I winning? If the answer is yes, nothing else matters.*

# Podcasts

- [The Rest is History, The History of Chocolate](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-rest-is-history/id1537788786?i=1000647648517). Very fun listen on way back from Switzerland - thematic although they didn't mention Switzerland.
- [Alex Karp on CNBC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j0Oz4P-NX84) After reading the two posts I continue to be interested in how Palantir’s works but every time I listen to Alex Karp, I am slightly disappointed. This was a 10 minute extract of him speaking about his new book which I started and I thought was interesting enough to buy after finishing the sample. The problem with this interview was that he was just ranting about the progressive left, a story which is now getting old (or maybe just because I have heard it multiple times)
- [New All-In with Patrick and John Collison](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OxP55dZjqZs)
    - They talked a lot about payments and the future of bitcoin.
    - Most interesting part I found was comment about Jamie Dimon’s town hall meeting which they play parts of.

# Books

- Elephant In the Brain: Interesting chapters about:
    - Body language. Lower status people (as in body language) tend to adapt to higher status people. Higher status body language people tend to walk slowly, take up lots of space.
    - Laughter. We laugh with hidden motives as laughter is an ode to play. It’s meant as a friendly ode (or flirty) depending on the situation.
- Ayn Rand: Goddess of the Market.
    - First part of the book is about her early life, her immigration to America luckily because she was able to get a visa and the struggle of not being able to publish The Fountainhead.
    - She strikes me as a highly individualistic but sour person.