---
title: "WR #4: January 19-26th 2025. Chris Sacca, Anxious Generation Review"
date: 2025-01-26
description: "Chris Sacca and Anxious Generation Review"
---
# Podcasts

- [Chris Sacca on Tim Ferris](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-tim-ferriss-show/id863897795?i=1000685149023)
    - I love Chris Sacca because I stole the *Play Offense*  mojo from his previous conversations but actually this time I felt he leaned too much into the mentality of “I like to hang out with a few specific awesome people who are super hand picked etc” He actually mentions that him and his wife did not have any +1s at his wedding because he wanted to make sure that every single person who was there could talk freely and have an *awesome* time with anyone else.
    - I think that’s a very zero-sum way of thinking because you are narrowing down your exploratory space. How will you increase your chances of meeting new cool people if you always have this mentality.
    - If I was of the former opinion before, now I think I lean much more towards being more exploratory in my encounters.
    - He also talked a lot about increasing risk aversion in children, very in-line with Jonathan Heidth’s thesis. He had a more interesting perspective than *The Anxious Generation* which I suspect is a lot more similar to the Coddling of the American Mind, in that a lot of 20 year olds are quite narrow minded, lack in empathy, cannot tell when people are lying to them, because they haven’t been exposed to much in their childhoods (this I see as being quite similar to boarding school)
- Others:
    - [All-in Latest Episode](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/all-in-with-chamath-jason-sacks-friedberg/id1502871393?i=1000684449478). A bit boring, I wasn’t super interested in much that they said.
    - [Marc Andreesen on Bari Weiss](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/honestly-with-bari-weiss/id1570872415?i=1000679866930). Talks about similar things as in the Rick Rubin interview.

# Books

- The anxious generation by Jon Heidt
    - Children have been over protected such that they arrive at a point where they expect others to make them feel psychologically safe and feel they have the right not to be offended.
    - Play based childhood makes children anti-frigile and less risk averse as they try and fail frequently. Virtual world carries less risk. There has been a lot of coddling in the physical world, this is his central thesis in the *Coddling of the American Mind* but this is effectively swapped in the virtual world.
    - Overall I can buy maybe 1 argument from the whole book, the one about excessive social media usage by young girls. It is difficult to trust the data because often the timelines are not so long, so something that looks like a step change could actually be not significant if you look further in time. Also, a lot of the data is picked from specific countries which makes me ask - why not show it for the whole world?
    - I think in general, when there is such a large step change in how children interact with social media in particular, I also find it difficult to convince myself that there is no change in the development of children because of it but at the same time the book has too much of a focus on the negative side, I definitely find it too biased.

# Media

- A Complete Unknown
    - I didn’t know Bob Dylan won a Nobel prize for literature. At the same time, I don’t find his songs particularly great, but I know nothing about music.
    - A point which sparked conversation is whether he should have played band music in the folk festival at the end scene, even though his *mentor* asked him not to (he asked him to stick to tradition). Whilst seeing the movie, I felt like yes he should have, because sometimes you need to take a risk to be great, even if things don’t work out (they didn’t work out, the crowd hated the new music).
- Slow Horses Season 4
    - Every time I see an episode, I am always surprised how quickly it finishes (they are 50 minutes). This is the most engaging show I have watched - why is that? What do they do right? I think it’s the combination of slight humour and enough action to keep you engaged. They keep introducing suspense but often actually underdeliver in the last episode of the series.