---
title: "WR #2: January 5-12th 2025. Peter Thiel, Optimism and Opposing News"
date: 2025-01-12
description: "Peter Thiel, Optimism and Opposing News"
---

# Articles

- [Trudeau promises to resign as PM](https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/trudeau-news-conference-1.7423680)
- [Should phones be banned in schools](https://thezvi.substack.com/p/childhood-and-education-8-dealing?utm_source=post-email-title&publication_id=573100&post_id=151517012&utm_campaign=email-post-title&isFreemail=true&r=1nyds4&triedRedirect=true&utm_medium=email)
    - Peter Thiel allows his children 1.5 hours of screen time a week - how will they become hackers then?
    - Generally seems to have a good effect on kids getting better grades and getting into better schools.
- [100s of quant papers repo](https://turnleafanalytics.com/hundreds-of-quant-papers-from-quantlinkaday-in-2024/)
- Operating well - [what I learnt at Stripe](https://samgerstenzang.substack.com/p/operating-well-what-i-learned-at)
    - It’s important to reinforce your goals. It’s something I don’t do enough of especially with personal OKRs. How you do that is actually realising what you don’t work on (the shiny things which don’t compound).
    - Raise the bar (turn up the conversation every time and ask the uncomfortable questions)
    - Consistency is hard to argue against.
- [Definite optimism as human capital](https://danwang.co/definite-optimism-as-human-capital/)
    - Positive vision doesn’t mean cheerful, rather a vision at all.
    - Most of our living standards are tied to the world of atoms so even though we have made lots of progress in the world of bits, we are still heavily dependent on the atom world.
    - Difference between risk aversion is Japan and in China - with China having a fearless employee base compared to Japan’s gloomy millenials amounting that to fears of previous downturn.
    - To read: Neal Stephenson’s Three Body Problem
    - Advice: *First, we can all try to engage more actively with the material world, not merely the digital or natural world. Go ahead and pick an industrial phenomenon and learn more about it. Learn more about the history of aviation, and what it took to break the sound barrier; gaze at the container ships as they sail into port, and keep in mind that they carry 90 percent of the goods you see around you; read about what we mold plastics to do; meditate on the importance of steel in civilization; figure out what’s driving the decline in the cost of solar energy production, or how we draw electricity from nuclear fission, or what it takes to extract petroleum or natural gas from the ground. To be a bit more future-looking, consider what the technological civilization ought to look like in the year 2300. Then figure out what kinds of theoretical and practical breakthroughs people need to solve in the near future before we get to that stage.*

# Podcasts

- [The rest is politics UK new year resolutions podcast](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-rest-is-politics/id1611374685?i=1000681147545).
    - I tried to listen to this to not get too skewed by the usual silicon valley libertarian views even though I don’t really like Alistair Campbell and Rory Steward. Two interersting things they mentioned:
    - Political parties in the UK looking to get traction should ride on a *Growth* manifesto. This is interesting because it’s what LFG is about.
    - People in the US are too preoccupied with appointments which come from VC, investing and tech and forget that there are much more extreme appointments who are heavily against immigration and globalisation.
- [The rest is politics US.](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-rest-is-politics-us/id1743030473?i=1000682431744)
    - Quite a long discussion about Steven Bannon vs Elon Musk which further supports what RIP UK talked about. Steve Bannon is much more purist and important to remember that Elon Musk is not even officially in government. DOGE is not actually a department.
- [All-in summit with Peter Thiel](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/talking-books/id1707036287?i=1000669772066)
    - He repeated multiple times “attention is all you need”
    - Who makes all the money in AI? It’s nvidia - they have a monopoly and the inflection point was when at a point nvidia had the largest market cap. The problem is that we have been detached from the semi-conductor space for too long. It wouldn’t have made sense to do an electrical engineering degree at any point since the 90s when netscape was becoming big.
    - Tiktok: meeting with the founder and suggesting that they need to get the business out of China because If China was to take over Taiwan, tiktok would be banned in 24hrs. Further (point from Lorenzo) why would we want a monitor of the ccp in our houses when facebook is not allowed in china?
    - Interesting that he didn’t donate money in this election cycle
    - Lots of points about education and how its broken. Take how long it takes people to pay out their student loan compares to before. Maybe the system for loans should be a lot more meritocratic. Do you actually qualify for a loan? How likely are you to be a good investment for education?
- [Barri Weiss with Peter Thiel](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/honestly-with-bari-weiss/id1570872415?i=1000611570326)
    - I found interesting mostly because it was different but can’t remember much of this one to be honest.
    - Only thing which struck me was again talk about stagnation.
- [Peter Thiel on Rick Rubin](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/tetragrammaton-with-rick-rubin/id1671669052?i=1000680797185)
    - Interesting point about education and how people have tried to change it for more than 100 years and it’s very difficult. That’s why he approached it with the Thiel fellowship - because it’s easier to take people out of education.
    - Also interesting that he does support student debt relief to some extent because he thinks people were given credit unfairly (evidently would not be able to pay it up).
    - Before they started paypal, him and Max Levtchin got together and started brainstorming ideas of what businesses they could build. Again, shows that you can force it.
    - Silicon Valley has a non-zero sum culture, which links back to beginning of infitnity and definite optimism.
- Odd Lots: How China makes nuclear energy.
- [All-in newest episode:](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/all-in-with-chamath-jason-sacks-friedberg/id1502871393?i=1000683542976)
    - California Fires. Gross negligence, this has happened before, winds were forecasted, why wasn’t there better prevention?

# Books

- Boom: Bubbles and the end of stagnation. Chapter on Moore’s Law and R&D Boom: du Pont. Good book to read is The Holy Trinity - the story about Intel’s 3 leaders. Interesting how nearly all of the semiconductor related companies which started after Shockley’s downfall were from ex-employees of Fairchild - something similar seems to be happening with OpenAI now.

# X

-