---
title: "WR #6: February 2nd-9th 2025. Palmer Luckey and Books"
date: 2025-02-09
description: "Palmer Luckey and Books"
---

# Media

- [Palmer Luckey on Politico](https://www.politico.com/video/2023/09/28/a-conversation-with-palmer-luckey-at-politicos-ai-tech-summit-clip-00118910)
    - Really funny when he says that he tries to indoctrinate people to go and work for anduril, yes but also tries to indoctrinate them to NOT go and work for something that doesn’t matter like improving Google’s search engine by 0.2%
    - Black swan in the room is US’s dependence on Taiwan and China. People make the argument that China won’t make it (I have also heard pmarca talk about how we are actually on par with China on AI and China are a little ahead on robotics), but in reality they are very scared and dependent.
    - He makes the claim that people are only worried about AI in the spare of misinformation, so they think AI is bad because it can generate news which seem real but in reality, the is so much more AI that is used in defence which can be much more dangerous.

# Podcasts

- [Jennifer Burns on Lex](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/lex-fridman-podcast/id1434243584?i=1000684600104)
    - She has written a biography of Milton Friedman and Ayn Rand. They both believed that the individual comes first and linked this to impersonation of capitalism.
    - In terms of personality, Ayn Rand was more sour and would get angry at people disagreeing with her whereas Milton Friedman was much more open minded.
    - They go through the history of economics in good high level detail, which is helpful to someone like me who knows nothing. Starting with classical economics, then into the marginal revolution which involved concepts from physics, introducing Keynesian economics, stagflation and Milton Friedman’s current reactions to DOGE and US policies.
    - Ayn rand can be described with words only: epistemology, reason, selfishness, politics, capitalism. She says that what defines humanity is rationalism and therefore any objective reality, we can access through reason (this is the objective epistemology part). The system that lets rationality flower and is based upon rationality is capitalism. Rationality only works as an individual capacity and it teaches that you should pursue your interests (this is selfishness). Actually what she means is self-actualisation (didn’t mean trampling on others but motivated by your own internal metrics).
    - She also has another perspective to objectivism, one which is closer to Nietzsche. Idea is basically that we have a convergence that altruism is good, which has led us to communism. We need a new moral code which is closer to selfishness, and therefore capitalism.

- [Palmer Luckey on Upstream](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/upstream-with-erik-torenberg/id1678893467?i=1000671641263)
    - When they started Anduril, the angle was - we’re gonna be the next defense prime. So they thought about what are the things defense primes are doing poorly, but *also* that government thinks is super important and congress agrees, *and* we can do well, and is important to military. If you hit these conditions, then lobbying job becomes super easy because the only thing you need to convince them is that you are a good solution. This is different to starting with a ready product, you rather think about what you can solve.
    - Anduril is now the sexy company - why is that, is it because of growth, even though they are in “war”? And have they only grown because of recent conflicts?
    - China can access US patents super easily, he asks why are we making it so easy, they should not be able to scrape all of Apple’s patents monthly. This needs to be balanced with availability to other counties. Ultimately this is just regulation because they have to declare new solutions, but something needs to change.
    - What Palantir and Space X did well is that they built the solution with their own money and then somehow pushed the government to buy their already built solution, not issue out a contract for someone else to build it better. They essentially sued their customer.
    - The US is arguing over pennies with imports and exports because its easy for them to understand steel. But China is also selling subsidised social media, what should happen - if they want to sell social media, they need to allow selling of Google, Facebook into China. His theory is also that everyone in US is scared of spooking the gen-z TikTok kids by putting any restrictions on it. But a recent survey suggests a margin of 2:1 of support of banning TikTok.
    - Talks about bringing about Chinese defectors (similar to the Cold War), give them passports and opportunity to become American citizens and be more aggressive. We need to help extract them - there are many people who are not allowed to leave China at the same time as their families for example, and we can help them.

# Books

- Secrets of our success by Joseph Heinrich

At the very beginning of this book but he is essentially claiming that the reason why human excel above all other animals is because of being socially smart, not because of memory or pace of processing. This is slightly contra- Deutsch and Rand’s view of humanity view at least as I see it now, but maybe there is a converging element at some point. 

- The Elephant in the Brain

There are 3 games that people compete at intrinsically: sex, politics and status. Sex is about competing to find a mate, politics is about competing to find coalitions, groups of friends and tribes and status is about excelling socially through dominance and prestige. We have hidden motives for competing in each area and we use self deception techniques without realising it. He goes through different ways we self-deceive and provide rationalisations, all for the purpose of being competitors at these games and fooling the opposition.