---
title: "WR #9: February 22nd-Mar 2nd 2025. Focus and Finding Alpha"
date: 2025-03-02
description: "Focus and Finding Alpha"
---

# Articles

- [The Ultimate Story of Entrepreneurship](https://www.shyamsankar.com/p/1776-the-ultimate-story-of-entrepreneurship)
    - Parallels between startups and continental army according to him: talent, meritocracy, food, chaos. An interesting one I found was food because I have not thought about it as much. But he makes the point that providing food pays for itsself in terms of providing focus, improving productivity etc.
    - Being ruthless. This is in the trend of being obsessed with the most important thing. Stop because it’s getting dark - no. Continue.
- [Igor Tulchinsky on Focus](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/think-problem-all-time-igor-tulchinskys-recipe-success-devin-banerjee-8t1rc/)
    - Again, this is about being focused and caring only about the most important thing. In a company this is easy if you have external deadlines, because you only care about delivering. When you don’t have these, this is a lot harder.
    - In trading, you need to be thinking about the problem all the time.

# Podcasts

- [All-in with Patrick and John Collison](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/all-in-with-chamath-jason-sacks-friedberg/id1502871393?i=1000694899424).
    - Milei - meme coin. He encouraged people buying it and then it crashed hurting finances of lots of people. Surprising because he has had really positive traction so far this year.
    - Why is Stripe not Public? It is good for discipline to be public, so it helps. It is a cheaper source of more liquid capital but if you don’t need that it’s ok. There are plenty of examples across finance (tech-finance) where companies are still private: Bloomberg, Jane street, Citadel, Goldman waited 130 years - so actually this is the norm.
    - A lot more return on time spent with customers and investors
- [Naval on All-in](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/all-in-with-chamath-jason-sacks-friedberg/id1502871393?i=1000692415847).
    - Unique views on parenting: allowing full freedom, treat children like adults (argument is that they are not adults, their pre-frontal cortex does not develop until they are 24 fully).

# Books

- The Elephant in the Brain: Consumption chapter. Why do we consume - again for status, sex and politics. It is getting a bit repetitive that everything we do is for these reasons. Interesting thought experiment was what we would consume if people did not care about other people’s opinions on clothes, food - good distiction between things which are practical, like a hairdryer and something which is not, like a piece of furniture.

- Finding Alphas by Igor Tulchinsky:
    - It is easier to predict a relative price of a financial instrument than its actual price. It helps to have more information than just prices, so how many shares were traded, volume etc. So it is helpful to think about what information are we incorporating up until now.
    - Two things are not useful when creating alphas: 1) predictions with low accuracy and 2) predictions which estimate a weak price change.
    - Alpha design is the intelligent search of space for all possible changes.
    - No rule is perfect, a combination of ALL rules comes as close as one can. Implications: necessary to come up with as many good rules as possible, no single rule can ever be relied upon entirely, necessary to come up with a strategy to use all rules simultaneously
    - How to identify if a strategy is not working: drawdowns exceed what is normal, Sharpe falls, otherwise goes out of the historical box, defying the rules that were initially observed
    - An issue with mapping an alpha directly to position is that the alpha is designed to predict returns, not make profitable trades. So we can predict something very well, but how do we also execute it well?
    - Example alpha: Behavioural finance states that, in the short term, the stock price tends to revert back due to the overreaction of traders. e.g. alpha1 = - (close_today - close_5_days_ago) / (close_5 days ago)
    - When turnover is high, we can try to decrease it with a decay → bets as we trade at the moment do not have turnover concept (we don’t turnover a portfolio) don’t have the same concept as turnover, so what does smoothing do for us? is this even important for us?
    - ICs are higher for price reversion alphas than for fundamental alphas. We just need to create price action signals.
    - How to create Mean Reverting Alphas: To Take advantage of the mean-reverting rule, we can use different methods to calculate the *mean* and different ways to define the tendency of *reverting.* Therefore it is a good idea to experiment with these. Also for making alphas more robust: ranking, quantile approximation, z-scoring, truncating, windsorising.  **
    
    Automated alpha search - there are techniques in data preparation and signal testing that can make alpha search more reliable.
    
    - It is a good idea to make predictors ratio-like. Because, if they are not they would not be comparable across stocks (or in this case runners)
    - Mixing data from different categories is a bad idea. For example, data with different frequencies will just increase the complexity of the model and make it more susceptible to overfitting to noise.
    - Longer testing period is not always a good idea. Alphas decay.