---
title: "WR #11: March 9th-16th 2025. Rory Sutherland, Communication and Paper Belt on Fire"
date: 2025-03-16
description: "Rory Sutherland, Communication and Paper Belt on Fire"
---

# Podcasts

I have been very into Modern Wisdom this week, the guests are interesting and the questions asked are good. 

- [Super-communicators by Modern Wisdom with Charles Duhigg](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/modern-wisdom/id1347973549?i=1000696940727):
    - There are super-communicators for all individual people. These are people who you don’t have to try to explain stuff to, but they rather understand you immediately and know how to answer, whether to ask a question or to propose a solution. This is a reason why people tend to communicate well.
    - There are 2 types of conversations which happen, emotional and planning. If they are misaligned, they will go wrong. For example, if I am wanting to vent to someone, I am in a much more of an emotional state. In that case, if the person I am communicating with starts to propose solutions that would make me feel like I am being misunderstood because I just want to vent. It is important to understand this.
    - What does being a good listener mean? It’s is not just about saying ‘interesting’ and nodding along, but rather reflecting information back in an active way: “Let me see if I have heard you correctly…”
    - I would buy his book after listening to him - highly recommend.

- [Rory Sutherland on Modern Wisdom](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/modern-wisdom/id1347973549?i=1000692951820)
    
    I have never listened to him before, he is the Chairman of Ogylvy and Matter and had a really deep understanding of many different aspects of economics, mathematics, human nature. I bought his book right after I finished this podcast. 
    
    - Jaguar actually knew that they would only keep 15% of their customer base after rebranding advert. They took a risky shot to go after a new generation. Now they are making two jags in blue and in pink. This is interesting because the advert was treated in a way was if they did not know that this was going to happen, but in reality the 15% of their super loyal customers do not end up shifting.
    - He also talks about how different economic policies tend to aim at the mean of the population, the middle man, and this inherently causes inequality.
    - During financial crisis, prices in Austin, Las Vegas and other cities not close to lake or the sea behaved differently because there is more land to expand and build.
    - On rich people: Rich people do not care about voting, because that means that they have the same influence as the teacher next door. Instead, they are much more interested in influencing people with money. They don’t care about democracy and whether that’s actually a good system to rule, as long as their life works well and they are happy. Take Dubai for example, which is massively optimised for rich people. Cheap Labour, no taxes, the ruling system is not great but rich people still flog there.
    - On taxes: He is not a fan of taxing pubs and restaurants because they are a social space. Someone going to the pub, makes my experience better because the pub is able to continue operating and continue improving. Taxing it, reduced the pleasantness of my experience. Top earners, who tend to pay taxes are inherently going to hate inefficiencies, this comes from the very nature of the fact that they have made lots of money in the first place. Why doesn’t the government work closer with super rich people to allocate their money more effectively.
    - On people in the UK: Occasionally, in the UK we do amazing things like Ocado, Octopus Energy and Wise but not many people tend to talk about them, because once you have your 2 children in private school, countryside house, land rover, anything on top of that is vulgar and not needed. There is a propensity towards mediocrity in the UK - it is not in the culture to make a big deal out of super big accomplishments, they are not as championed as in the US which is a problem.
    - On living in the countryside: In SF and in Austin, it’s actually very respectable to live in a large house in the country or on a ranch. In the UK, if you’re commuting from bromley, not so much - all people over 35 secretly want to live in the countryside.
- [Rory Sutherland on Farnham Street](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/the-knowledge-project-with-shane-parrish/id990149481?i=1000385973550)
    - A lot of similar points, e.g. airport security - apparently 70% of the lag in airports is due to people bringing through too much liquids - the container is the perpetrator, not the quantity of liquid.
    - Silicon Valley tries to optimise minor improvements to improve life but I like his point that some things are unoptimisable. For example, London Taxi drivers take 4 years to qualify, drivign around on a moped to memorise the roads. It’s lenghty and expensive. So their incentive to cheat you is very low (they also are much more likely to stop at a pedestrian crossing because they don’t want their license to be taken away.) The history of the London Taxi exams is also intersting from the 1800s and why it was introduced. 

    - Dry toilet paper is something that doesn’t make any sense - you don’t tend to wipe muddy hands with dry paper.

# Books

- Paper Belt on Fire
    - One chapter left of this book. I would say, overall it’s quite well written but it is very focused on the life of Michael Gibson. My impression was that it was going to be a lot more about the failure of the education system and suggestions on how to reform it. Instead many chapters are sour expressions of why how he and his partner Danielle did not get enough money in Loom for example, being crushed by later rounds of investments.
    - I can see why it appeals from the perspective of how difficult it is to raise rounds for funds, but there isn’t really that much meat to the book.
    - I think the only chapters worth reading it probably the *Redefining Intelligence,* where they talk about what kind of people they look for in the Thiel Fellowship, *Luminar* where they describe the story of Luminar which I think is an impressive story because the founder did not go to university and yet came up with incredible hardware innovations and the Last Chapter which is about the most important problems to work on in different areas + which companies to watch  out for.

# Movies

Watched more TV than usual - mostly on weekend. 
- Wedding Crashers & American Pie. Funny.
- The Inside Job documentary. Watched 10 minutes and stopped it after reaching the conclusion that it’s extremely biased.
- Panorama Pavel Durov documentary. BBC is supposed to be impartial but this seemed also quite biased against Telegram. It’s an interesting conundrum that he holds all the power, is not open sourced, so we rely on his complete trust for him to cooperate.
- Gilmore Girls, episode where Emily and Lorelai go to the spa together. 

