---
title: "WR #5: January 26-February 2nd 2025. Little Content"
date: 2025-02-02
description: "Little Done"
---

# Articles

- [Nabeel on Productivity Advice](https://nabeelqu.co/advice)
    - Energy compounds on itsself. If you start the morning by getting something done, it will be easier to do other things. This is about maximising your baseline levels. If you tell yourself that you are an energetic person, you will become an energetic person.
    - Don’t sleep too much, make sure you get enough but having two hours less is useful because you can do so much more with extra hours (i.e. think about the difference between 7 and 9)
    - Write regularly, and try to think in writing. Weekly reviews.

# Podcasts

- [Bari Weiss with Marc Andreesen](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/honestly-with-bari-weiss/id1570872415?i=1000679866930):
    - Good potential book mentioned: Private Truths Public Lives
    - Trump raising his fist with blood out of his head, standing up for America, despite the chaos. This is what made Marc change his mind on Trump, partly because it signalises how he is willing to stand up for making America great.
    - Meeting in 2013 in Meta where they defined hate speech and misinformation was the starting point of woke.
    - Biden administration had seeding contempt for tech, they basically destroyed the career of Intel’s CEO. I need to read up more on this because I don’t really know what he’s talking about but it sounds interesting.
    - He mentioned he was in rooms where the things they were saying were crazy, I like it because Bari Weiss pushes on this and asks for specific examples. He says that the Biden Administration were basically saying, don’t go into AI because we will regulate the the shit out of AI. In particular, they will keep AI controlled to a few large companies who cooperate very close with the government.

# Books

- The Elephant in the Brain
    - What are the hidden motives of actions we undertake every day. There was an interesting example about grooming in the animal kingdom, animals groom each other much more than they should for pure hygiene purposes. Instead, they actually do it for status.
- Catherine the Great by Robert Massie
    - I am back to this book which I started a while ago and got to the part about Catherine marching to dethrone Peter III. It’s quite an interesting scene, of how she borrows parts of uniforms from younger soldiers because she doesn’t own any (as she’s a woman). I think she’s up there in the most inspirational women figures.