---
title: "WR #10: March 2nd-9th 2025. Shyam Sankar"
date: 2025-03-09
description: "Shyam Sankar"
---

# Articles

- [How did Shyam Sankar join Palantir?](https://www.forbes.com/sites/quora/2012/09/18/how-did-shyam-sankar-join-palantir/)
    - I find it inspiring to read about individuals having worked through adversity and making it. It’s very easy when everything come available to you to state that you “have made it” and I think sometimes we forget how much harder it would be if you were born unlucky.
- [The Case Against Work-Life Balance](https://www.shyamsankar.com/p/the-case-against-work-life-balance)
    - I have always resonated with this mentality and I detest anybody who tries to regulate how I work, again, I have always been a fan of work-life integration: how do you integrate your life and work together. When people say to “take it easy” and to not overwork yourself, I often think it’s because they get exhausted from doing something they don’t like.
    - Yes, I do get tired sometimes after long stints but when I feel like I have purpose, it is easy to get going again. Sankar calls it “holding a pace”.
    - One thing I found interesting is that when you’re young you probably need to work a lot more because you learn by absorbing rather than by reflecting. As you get older, you have  more things you have worked on, so you can actually reflect on things.
    - Another is caring about work-life balance in the limit. But how do you know where the limit is? Here it is just a matter of trying.

# Books

- Paper Belt on Fire by Michael Gibson. This is a new book I picked up written by a guy who used to work in Peter Thiel’s hedge fund and built the Thiel Fellowship. Having a high class education is the default status - nobody would hire anyone who has not been to university. The fellowship is a disruption to the education sector. It’s written really well so far, very engaging, like a story.